Hi everyone. So today I want to talk about building LLM's large language models
from the ground up. And this is going to be a coding workshop. So I will show you a few
slides maybe for five to 10 minutes, but the remainder of this video will be actually focused
on code, I will show you the concrete steps on that one might take to implement a large
language model from scratch. So just briefly about myself, my name is Sebastian Raschka.
I'm currently a staff research engineer at Lightning AI. And yeah, we develop an AI platform.
And I'm also specifically there involved in LLM research and implementing LLMs. So that's
currently my focus. And previously, I was an assistant professor of statistics at the
University of Wisconsin--Madison, where I did deep learning and AI research. So the
workshop topics are listed here. So there are six topics on the introduction to LLMs.
It's this 10 slides I have prepared, but then sections two to six will be focused
on code. So we will be looking at a lot of code examples today. And yeah, first I will
introduce what the input data to an LLM looks like. And I think this is maybe the most fundamental
topic if you want to understand how LLMs work. Because yeah, if you understand how the data
looks like that goes into an LLM, how it's formatted, and also maybe the data that comes
out of it, I think you already have like 80% of the understanding that it takes to let's
say understand how to understand how LLMs work. Then yeah, of course, we will be also
coding the LLM architecture itself in section three. We'll keep this relatively brief, but
I will show you the fundamental concepts. And then yeah, the exciting part, we will
be pre-training an LLM ourself on a very, very small data set, because yeah, LLM training
takes time. So this is more focused on showing you how it actually works. And then we will
train, of course, an LLM, but we will also be loading larger, more capable LLMs from
pre-trained weights. So we will also look at that. And lastly, we will be fine tuning
LLMs to follow human instructions. So just to, for maybe five minutes, give you a general
introduction to LLMs. If you have not used LLMs, I would say the most common way, of
course, would be using ChatGPT. But I believe maybe most of you have done this before. So
for example, ChatGPT is an online proprietary service where you can access GPT-4
models, for example. And yeah, you can ask it questions, for example, give it tasks,
for example, here, fix my spelling errors, and it will hopefully give you a good result
here. So fixing, in this case, spelling, but it can also do many, many other things that
can answer general questions, summarizing text, and so forth. So this would be one way
of using LLMs via proprietary service. Another one would be, for example, using your
private or custom LLM locally. So you can start, for example, with available LLM, for
example, Llama or Phi or Gemma by Google. So there are different companies and people and
research institutes that share LLMs. And here, LitGPT is, for example, a library that
implements lots of these different LLMs and lets you fine tune them. So I'm just showing you one example
of how I usually do it. So it's a library of help developing. And so here, in this case,
you can say `litgpt chat checkpoint`. And yeah, and then you can ask it a similar
question, or give it a similar task, fix my spelling errors. And usually it performs pretty
well, because it's a pretty capable model. So this would be the Microsoft Phi-3
model. And this would be another way of using an LLM. And a third way would be deploying
an LLM API endpoint. So with that, I mean, so the previous example, maybe to go one step
back, is about running an LLM locally. In this case, I was using a cloud environment, but
you can also do that on your own computer. But not every computer, has a GPU.
And for most LLMs, I would recommend using GPUs, or at least if you want to access more
powerful LLMs. If you, for example, watch the Apple keynote recently, they announced
on to bring local LLMs to iPhones and MacVooks that can run on a CPU, or Microsoft also,
I think has these Copilot PCs, but they also focus on running some models on a CPU, but
still, these are very small models. If you want to really run larger models that are
potentially more capable. Yeah, then it's really highly recommended to use a GPU. And
if your computer doesn't have a GPU, what you can do is you can, for example, deploy
an LLM on a server. And then you can use it via an API endpoint on your local computer
to access it. And it will be kind of like using ChatGPT, but it will be your private
LLM. So just to show you an example. So for example, I can do LGBT surf, and then serving
this model, it could be a base model or fine tuned model. And it spins it up on the server.
And then here in my local terminal, for example, I can then query it via an API endpoint. So
I here I use an address. So this is like a local address, but you can also specify the
port and address. And then you can query it in a Python session, basically. So I could
deploy an LLM on a GPU server and then use it on a local machine. Or if I
am developing a phone app, iPhone app or something, I can plug that into my app that
queries a server and so forth. It's just an example. But these are three things using
a proprietary service, running a local LLM and deploying an API endpoint, I would say
are the most three most common ways of working with or using LLMs. This workshop is not so
much about using LLMs. It's about developing an LLM. So I will in this workshop go through
several stages on stage one, the building where we have the data preparation and sampling
and the architecture coding. Then we will have stage two with the pre training and stage
three with a fine tuning. So this is essentially a whole workflow of starting from data and
then ending with an instruction fine tuned LLM. And in this workshop, because we want
to keep it relatively, I would say digestible. So a few hours, three,
four hours, I want to cover all the topics in great detail, but I will focus on these
four main points, the data preparation and sampling, coding the architecture, the training
loop and loading the pre-trained weights, where we will be doing these from the ground
up, which means really starting from scratch, not using any existing LLM libraries, because
I think this is actually a really great way of understanding how an LLM works. If we really
do all the work ourselves, instead of just calling some functions that we don't
really understand how they work. So I think this is really important if you really want
to understand something to, yeah, to start from the ground up or look for resources or
code that really walk you through the individual steps that you can then follow and really
make sure that, yeah, this makes sense to you. And then you can also more easily adapt and
develop better versions of it, for example. So most of the code for that will be based
on my book, Build a Large Language Model from Scratch. So it's currently available on the
Manning website. It's a short link here, or you can also find the code examples corresponding
to the book on GitHub. So most of the figures and the code in this workshop are from the
book, but it's of course not the same as the book. The book is way more detailed
where in this workshop, we will be covering approximately 20 to 30%. But if you're interested,
you know, here you can find more details. For the instruction fine-tuning part, I also
have an extensive section on that in the book, which is probably even the longest chapter
in the book. However, because I don't want to make this a 12-hour workshop, we will be
using for this part a library called LitGPT that I helped developing. So here in this
part, the instruction fine-tuning, we will be using also an optimized open source library
that is making this very efficient. Okay, so these are the topics we are going to cover.
And yeah, if you want to learn more about LitGPT, you can find it also on GitHub here.
And there is also a cloud environment that you can use. So what I wanted to say is, so
for this workshop, there are two different ways you can follow along. And I highly recommend
when you're watching this video to follow along with your own code session.
So to just execute it by yourself, also alongside and see if it all makes sense
to you. And you can then also make modifications or change things up and see how it affects
the results. And I think that's a great way to learn, in my opinion. So there are two
ways you can follow along. And one is I have a Lightning Studio, which is in a sense like
an interactive environment. You can think of it roughly as Google Colab, but it's more
sophisticated where you can run the code examples on in the Visual Studio Code environment in
notebooks, or as Python scripts. And you can also change the CPU and GPU. So for example,
for the first part of the workshop, we will be mainly using CPUs. And then because we
don't need to use a GPU for that. And then we can flexibly when we need it, switch to
a GPU. But we don't have to set anything up. So here, in this one, I have already downloaded
all the model checkpoints, I already installed all the dependencies. So it will make your
life basically easier. However, if you want to set everything up on your own computer,
you can also use this GitHub link here. And there I have all the code examples. But again,
you have to install the dependencies and download all the files. But it's up to you which of
course you want to follow both have the identical code examples. So yeah, like I said, I would
recommend using the Lightning Studio. So in that case, you don't have to worry about
dependencies and downloading any files. Alternatively, you can find the setup instructions for all
the code here on GitHub, under the setup subfolder. And yeah, this is basically it for the introduction.
So I would recommend either the Lightning Studio or the GitHub setup to get started.
And then I will actually now dive into the code. All right, let's take a look at some
code now. So all the code should be here on GitHub, or under this link. And if you want
to use the code locally on a laptop computer, I have instructions here for installing
everything. But yeah, more conveniently, you can also use this Studio. So `Open Studio` brings
you to this landing page. And then you can duplicate this Studio here to run the code
like I have it here. And yeah, this contains all the different sections we are going through
in this video. And there are also additionally some downloaded model checkpoint files that
we will be using later. But yeah, so in this first section, let's get started with section
two, we already talked about the introduction. So this was just the slides I showed you.
Now we are on to part two. And this is about the data preparation. So understanding how
data input is prepared for an LLM, which is actually quite useful because it helps you
also understand what the LLM receives as input. And yeah, essentially what it has to work
when we pre train it. So yeah, this is a Jupyter notebook, I have all the code in here, I will
go through it step by step. So it's actually I would say maybe 20 or 30% of that is taken
from my book. Of course, the book is much more detailed about I don't want to make this
a week long video. So I just, you know, rely on a few smaller subsets, and especially for
the figures. Yeah, in any case, so in this notebook, we will be using PyTorch at the
end for data loading and library called tiktoken. But other than that, everything will
be relatively from scratch, which means we are not using any other LLM library. And we
will get to what that is later in this notebook. So if you run the Studio, it should already
be installed. So you don't have to worry about it. Otherwise, like I mentioned, if you're
running this locally, there is a setup folder here, where you can find instructions for
installing packages and stuff. Okay, so getting started with the data preparation and sampling,
which would be the first stage when we start working with an LLM. That is also
true, whether we want to use an existing LLM, or if we want to even develop our own
LLM, because yeah, without data, the LLM can't do really much. Yeah, okay. So in this
figure, I'm kind of like summarizing everything that we have to do when we prepare the data.
So essentially, we start with input text that is here just a very small example consisting
of four words and a punctuation sign. But just you know, like a simple example that
fits into one figure. And the first step would be tokenizing this text, which means breaking
this up into individual in this case, word tokens, and then one punctuation token here.
And these tokens then get on converted into token IDs, which are you can think of it as
number representations of this text. So if this is a text string, these are just integer
numbers. And these integer numbers then get converted into embeddings. So I was thinking
really hard about whether I should include embeddings or not. And originally, if you see
the GitHub commit history, I had the embeddings come included, but it ended up being way too
much material for this three to four hour workshop. So I don't cover the embeddings here,
but it's essentially a process of converting the token IDs into continuous vector representation.
So in this notebook, and specifically in this notebook, we will be talking about this part
from input text to the token IDs. And then I will also load the data using a PyTorch data
loader. And so the data set we will work with is The Verdict by Edith Watson, Wharton, sorry,
Edith Wharton, that's the correct name. And this is a public domain short story. So
public domain means this has this is a book that has been a short story that has been
written a long time ago, maybe 100 200 years ago, something like that. And so there is no
copyright on that. So this is like a data set that we can use for LLM training. So if you are
preparing data sets, I recommend always being aware and respectful of existing copyrights. So
basically saying that we can't just, you know, copy certain texts from the web, because there
may be copyrights on it that we then also should be respectful of. In any case, this is a public
domain book that we can use. And I'm just using a very, very small book for illustration purposes
so that the training later in section four will be relatively fast so that we don't
have to wait a week for our model to finish the pre training. So this text consists of 20,000
characters. And yeah, it's just regular text, plain text. So here is an excerpt of the first
100 characters, essentially. And like I've shown you earlier in the figure, the goal here is first
to tokenize the text, which means breaking it down into individual tokens, which are words,
punctuation signs, and so forth. And yeah, this is actually a big topic itself, it could
be the whole four hour lecture, discussing how tokenizers work, but tokenizers are not really
the LLM itself. So in this case, I will only show you a simple tokenizer and then show you a
tokenizer that is used for GPT models. But just to get an idea of how it works, it's a simple
tokenization scheme. So here, I'm using a regular expression that splits text based on white space
characters, and punctuation and so forth. So everything will be kind of split like you can see
here. If you are not familiar with regular expressions, even that is probably a two hour
topic by itself or even longer. So yeah, I usually also I'm really not that good at regular
expressions anymore, thanks to LLMs, because you know, you can actually also ask LLMs to help you
with generating certain regular expressions. The idea here though, is that we are splitting the text
into these tokens. So actually, I don't need this line, even it's redundant. So I'm splitting the
text into tokens here. And you can see it's essentially one word per token. And then we also
have the white spaces here as separate tokens. So these are the first 38 tokens here. If I then
print the length, so we have 9000 tokens. So that's the total number of tokens in this The Verdict
data set. We can also take a look at the unique tokens. So for example, I can do the length, and
then the set. So in Python, the set gets rid of duplicates, it's basically basically just unique
entries. So I can do length pre processed here. And this should give me the number of unique
tokens. So we have 1133 unique tokens in this data set. Next, or actually, I can also show you this if
you're interested, pre processed. So these are basically the unique tokens should be sorry, these
should be the unique tokens, of course. So these are not containing the white spaces anymore. They
are just the unique tokens. I can also maybe sort them alphabetically. See. So yeah, here we have
the unique tokens in increasing order in Python, usually capitalized words, goal before the lower
case words. Okay, so next we can convert these tokens into the token IDs. But for that before we
can do that as one more step. And that is building a so called vocabulary. So looking at this figure,
we have a training data set, this would be The Verdict that we just looked at. The first
step that we already did is when we tokenized this data set, which means we took this and converted
this into these individual word tokens. Now, the next step is to build this vocabulary from all the
tokens in the training set. So for that is, for that, what we do is we take or consider each unique
token and add it to the vocabulary and alphabetic order, which is kind of like what I've done here.
So yeah, extracted all the unique tokens. And next, once we have these unique tokens, we assign a
unique token ID to them. So here they are in alphabetic order. And then I'm assigning a token ID,
essentially, just an integer number, you can think of it just like unique mapping from word to integer.
So how I do this is, so here's actually the same code I used earlier, above so to get the unique
tokens, I'm calculating the vocabulary size, which is equal to the unique tokens are the number of
unique tokens. And here now I create this dictionary. So I say for each. So let's do this
maybe step by step. So for each word, so sorry for you for each word, we have a for loop for I in
numerate. So this will be giving me IDs from zero to one. So I can do print I and you will see it will
go from zero to 1132. And it will give me also the corresponding token. So because enumerate gives me
the number, the index, along with all the unique tokens. So what I'm doing now is I'm using the
token and map it to the integer. So I'm basically reverting this instead of from integer to token, I
have token to integer. So I can actually take a look at this. Or actually, I have it already here,
so I don't need to retype it. So I can actually look at the first 50 entries and can
show you then how this looks like. So here, we have now the tokens mapping to these IDs. And you
can see on the punctuation characters come first, and then we have them in alphabetical order. So
each kind of like here, each unique token maps to unique token ID. In this case, we have 1133 token
IDs. And yeah, and then once we have this vocabulary, we store this vocabulary because we
need to use it now to convert our text. So we have some sample text here, we tokenize it, which
is what we've already done. And then we use this vocabulary that we have just built to convert it
into token IDs. So now we are using this tokenized text and converted to token IDs using this
vocabulary. And you might wonder, where do these numbers come from? That is because how our
vocabulary is constructed. So maybe, let's see the it's, I mean, it would be down here, but the
would be corresponding to token ID seven. So if I scroll up a bit here, so this would be the last
entry, it would correspond to ID seven. And then, you know, vocabulary, brown corresponds to zero,
doc corresponds to one. And this is how we come up with zero, sorry, 701, by just looking up the
respective token IDs for these words. We could put everything together into a Python class. And
this, this will make it easier to use this in practice, this concept. So here I have a simple
tokenizer class. And before I show you maybe the code, or before I discuss the code, let's take a
brief look at the figure here. And so what this tokenizer class is supposed to do is it's supposed
to encode text, like here, so you have text, and then you encode it into encoding will essentially
break down the text into tokens, you can then use the vocabulary to convert these tokens into token
IDs. And then there's also a reverse function, it's this tokenizer decode method. And this, this
method will take token IDs. So when we have token IDs here, converted back into these token strings,
and then assemble the token strings back into text. So you go from basically text to token IDs, and
then back from token IDs to text. So I can maybe just show you how this works here. So if I
initialize the tokenizer, simple tokenizer version one, I give it the vocabulary, it's a vocab,
right, may have to execute, I did execute this, okay, it should be fine. So I need to execute this
first, of course. So now, when we initialize this tokenizer with this init method, it will store the
vocabulary string to integer. So this is the vocabulary we use to map from string to integer
that we already created. And then we can also have a reverse vocabulary. So this maps from integer to
string. So here, it's essentially just reversing it. So instead of string integer, we have integer
string. So just to show you how it looks like, let's go maybe here. So I have my vocab that maps
from string to integer, and I can say integer string for string integer, and vocab, oops, keep
hitting this down button for some reason. And this should be items, I think, because otherwise, I
will iterate over the keys should work. Yep. So this is now essentially the reverse mapping from
integers to the strings. Okay, and so this happens when we initialize it. So it constructs this, and
then we can use the encode method, the `encode` method that can then convert our text into token
IDs. So let me from the top grab some, I can actually also go here. Let's just scroll down here,
sorry for scrolling so much. So I can go here to The Verdict. Let's just copy some text here, and
tokenize this text. So here, I'm going to tokenize it. And yeah, you see, we have these integers now.
And I can do the same thing in reverse. So I can take this and say `tokenizer.decode()`. And this will be
just doing the same thing, but the other way around. So we go now from the token IDs to this text here.
And yep, this is essentially how the tokenizer works. So we have method encode that goes from text to
token IDs. And then we have the other way we go from token IDs back into text. Okay yeah, this is
our simple tokenizer. I already showed you this. So nothing new here. And now I should say, I mean,
there's a reason why I called it simple tokenizer version one, this is really just a very naive,
simple tokenizer. It's to illustrate the two concepts of encode and decode. Now in practice,
when you use a LLM or a tokenizer, you usually when you use an existing LLM, you use a pre trained
tokenizer. So when you are creating a new LLM, there's actually a training for the tokenizer where
you are applying the tokenizer to a data set through the training data set, and then it learns a
vocabulary like similar to what we have done before. Now, in practice, there are more sophisticated
algorithms for that. And one of them is called byte pair encoding. And what's special about byte
pair encoding is that it can handle unknown words. So in this workshop, because this would be another
four hours implementing byte pair encoding and training it from scratch, we are going to use the
tiktoken library, which is the open source library from OpenAI that has what is very popular
and is used to, you know, tokenize text for GPT type models. It's pretty fast. So it's a Python
library, but it is implemented in Rust under the hood. And I compared it to some other
implementations, for example, the original byte per encoder by by open AI that was used for GPT
two. And it was three times faster than that. And I compared it also to the BPE tokenizer and
hugging face. And your tiktoken was six times faster. So it's it's much, much, much faster than
the Hugging Face tokenizer. So that's why we are going to use this particular tokenizer.
It's a nice and fast tokenizer. And I will show you in a moment how it works. So first, we are
going to use the GPT two version of that. And then really, the way it works is very, very similar
to the way we used it before. Also, we used our own simple version one tokenizer. So there's also
an encode method and a decode method. And it's essentially the same input. So it takes text and
codes it into integers. And then it takes integers and decodes it, decodes it back into text, just
to show it to you here. And one thing maybe I should mention is this part. And so there is another
specific token called end of text token. And this is a token used by GPT models to denote when a text
ends and when a new text starts. So for example, when you are preparing a training data set, you
may have multiple books, usually, for example, when people train the Llama three model, they used 15
trillion tokens, like many, many websites and books, and so forth. And so usually, you would insert
this end of text token, if you train a GPT like model, after each document or each book or website,
so forth. So this is really just a text delimiter. And here I'm just showing you that in this
particular case for tiktoken, it's not included for some reason in the standard GPT to encoding
by vocabulary. For some reason, you have to explicitly add it here. And this will be then
corresponding to the 50,257th token, because in PyTorch, or in Python, we start with zero
indexing. So we have 50,257 tokens in this BPE tokenizer. One thing that is special also about
BPE compared to our own tokenizer is that it can handle unknown words. So what I mean is I could
technically go here and say tokenizer, encode, and then some really made up text, and it will still
work. So here, in this case, it will still work. I can, for example, say tokenizer to find out what
these IDs correspond to. Say decode. And let's take the first one is 292. So I'm just taking this
token here. And let's see what this decodes to. So it's actually considering this as a token,
the AS. And for the second one, it's considering decay. So how it works is essentially that each
character can be a single token if it's like this, where it's like an unknown word. But if the model
has seen words before that look similar, for example, as or decay, then it will use two
character tokens. So in other words, what I'm trying to say is it can handle unknown words by
breaking them down into individual subparts. There's actually a quite interesting algorithm
behind on behind this. I'm not covering it here, because yeah, it would be a long lecture, but it
might be an interesting future video sometime. But yeah, we are going to use this BPE tokenizer for
all the remaining sections in this workshop. So one more thing I wanted to briefly cover is the
data loading. Yeah, because I don't want to spend like five hours of your time on preparing the
data set, I will not go into too much detail of how the data loading is implemented here in this
particular workshop. But one thing I think we should talk about is how the data is roughly
structured. And so LLMs, when they are pre trained, they learn to predict one word at a time. So if I
have some input texture in blue, it would generate the next word here and in red, the learns LLMs learn.
And then for the next input, LLMs learn, it would generate two, the next word. And this is usually
how we talk about the LLM pre training, the next word prediction task, and so forth. But
what really happens under the hood is the LLM predicts the plus one token at each position. So
it's very more clear if I show you this figure here. So here I have some input text. And in blue,
this would be my my input. I'm not showing you the so the LLM would see the token IDs, which are
then embedded. But I'm showing you the text here, because it's a bit more readable. So here, let's
say we have input text instead of token IDs. So because then you can better visualize it. So the
first input, if I have a context size of four, would be in the heart of and then the targets, the
thing that I want to predict is the inputs shifted by one position to the right. So you can see in
blue, that's the input and in red, that's the targets shifted by one position to the right. So
LLMs are really trained on target tokens that are shifted by one position. So if I feed
the LLM this input, it should generate this output. And how I get this next word at a time here that
I'm showing you here is by taking only the last token. So for example, if I have this input, the
model generates this output, I would only consider this last token here, the basically. So in this
case, in the heart of the so we have one more token, and then the next input would be everything
shifted again by one block. So in pre training, we could move over this blue one here, like I'm
showing you here by one position. And then we can have the next input input batch like this. So we
have in the heart, and the next input would be in the heart of the sorry, in the heart of and then
the heart of the and then heart of the city of the city stood and so forth. So we can always move
over by one position. But then you notice that we get these overlaps, right? So we have the heart
off here, and we have it here, too. So in this case, the LLM would essentially see a lot of
repeated tokens when you're pre training it. So in practice, when we prepare the inputs,
what we do is we shift this input window by the size of the input window. So this is also called a
stride. Sometimes some if you have worked with LL, sorry, with CNN's convolution networks, you
may be familiar with the strides when we talk about the convolutional kernels. Here, it's a
relatively similar context or concept. So here, if we have an input of size four, for one training
example, we would then move it over by four for the next one, so that we don't have an overlap for
the inputs. The targets, I'm not showing you the targets here, because it would be too cluttered.
But the targets are still shifted always by plus one, because you always want to predict the next
word. There are actually some LLMs on this one, actually is only one. It's called multi token
prediction something. So there was a paper recently by I think it was matter AI, who developed a
method to predict four tokens. But this is really like an experimental research paper. In practice,
if you look at all the popular LLMs, for example, ChatGPT, GPT-4, Llama-3, Phi-3,
Gemma, and so forth, and Gemini, they all do next word prediction. So it's it's a sense like the
targets are shifted by a position of one. And we will actually also see sampling function later
once we pre train the network. So then it will be a bit more clear how you get that next token in
case this was confusing. The last thing is, I wanted to briefly show you just how the data set
looks like I originally planned to go over this. But this ended up being too much material, because
I think we are already talking for half an hour just about this section. And there is also still
the architecture and the pre training weight loading and fine tuning to talk about. So I'm cutting
it short here. And I will just mention there is this function implemented, which will then
essentially produce the input batches for the model. So here in this case, these are the inputs. And
these are the targets. So the inputs are so the token IDs here, I mentioned I'm showing you the
words instead of token IDs, because it's more readable. What's the same concept here. So you
have an input. And then the target shifted by one position. So you can see the 367 here. And it's
located right here and then 285 2885 and so forth. So everything is shifted by one position. And you
can also see that there's no overlap between any of those. So in case you are wondering about that,
it's basically this moving over by one position, sorry, by by the size by four positions. And here,
we are using this max length of four. So we have only four per row. So one row is one training
example, and we have only four tokens per row, which is kind of small. And this is really just so
that I could make a figure where I can visualize that. In practice, when we are training a model,
like GPT two, it's usually something around 1024. So you have like 1000 tokens in one row instead
of just four. It's really just so that it's easier to visualize, right? Yeah, okay. And so this is
how the input data how the input data would look like. So we have mini batches similar to deep
learning, where in this case, we have 12345678, a batch size of eight. And each training example
consists of multiple tokens. And then the targets are really the same as the inputs except shifted
by one position. And yeah, so this isn't a nutshell how we prepare a data set for an LM. And we will
later train our LM on this data set. And just like as a warm up, optional exercise, maybe pause
this video at this point and prepare your own data set. So if you have some favorite texts, maybe
something you have written, or maybe some other public domain book you like, please feel free to
download it and put it into the folder where you have this notebook. And then you just run this code
instead of The Verdict here at the top run this code on your own favorite text. And then you can
actually also use this text in the later into later sections, basically. So yeah, it's just like a
small, maybe fun, optional thing to do.
Okay, so now after we cover the input part, how we tokenize texts, let's go to the next part, the LM
architecture. So here in this notebook, I want to talk about a bit of how an LM is structured. But
this is only on a big picture level. So there will be a lot of individual components. And this is a
three to four hour workshop, and not like a 3240 hour workshop. So in this case, yeah, we will be
focusing on the big pictures here. So here in this notebook, we will be talking about coding, LM
architecture, but the top down view, if you're interested in further details, you can check out my
GitHub repository here corresponding to my book where I have more notes and on every
individual component that we code. But yeah, for this video, let's focus on the bigger picture. So
suppose we have an LM like shown here, previously, we talked about taking input text, and then
tokenizing this input text into these individual token IDs. And inside the LM, they get then
processed by so called embedding layers that produce continuous valued vectors. And those go into
so called transformer blocks. And then there's an output layer, some post processing steps, and then
we get text back. So the goal, again, is to generate one word at a time with LM. And that's how
elements are also pre trained. So when you use something like ChatGPT, of course, it's more
sophisticated. So you will notice it can follow instructions. But typically, when we start
developing an LM and pre train it, it will require you to provide something like a starting text, a
starting context. For example, like this, every effort moves you. And then based on the starting
context, it will provide basically the next word in this case forward. There are a few more nuances
to that how this next word is generated. And we will get to that by the end of this notebook. So
here, it's more like the big picture, we have the LM. And inside there's something called a
transformer block that gets repeated a number of times. And yeah, that produces basically the
output text. And this is the same for all kinds of architectures. It's GPT, Google's gamma or
Gemma, Microsoft's phi mistral, meta AI slama, and so forth. So they all kind of rely on the same
underlying concept. And here's the architecture in a little bit more detail. And I know there is a
lot of technical jargon on this one, which we won't go over here. But you know, if you are familiar
with deep learning, some of these things might be familiar to you, for example, dropout or layer
norm, or these are residual connections, there's a output layer feed forward, which is basically a
mini layer, multi layer perceptron. And this consists of linear layers with nonlinear activations
and so forth. So again, this workshop is not the workshop to go into these details, I wish I could,
but due to time reasons, I have to only give you the big picture overview. And the takeaway here is I
would say that different LLMs are very similar to each other, even though they might be large and
much larger than others, they are still underlying the same concepts. So here on the left hand side,
GPT small is 124 million parameter LLM. Of course, the L in LLM stands for large, so it's small, large
language model. But there also is this variant called GPT two large, which is 1.5 billion
approximately. And so this is about more than 10 times larger. But the only difference really is
that this number of times the transformer block is repeated is now 36 instead of 12. And we have 20
heads instead of 12 heads in this masked multi head attention module. So if you're familiar with
convolutional networks and convolution networks, there's something called channels. And the heads
is essentially analogous to those channels. And there's also a detail where they use rotate rotary
embeddings. Sorry, not here. That's actually Llama. So here, we use absolute embeddings, and they have
a different embedding size. So when we have the token IDs, we go from token IDs to continuous
valued vectors. And in this case, each token ID is represented by a 768 dimensional vector. In the
large model, we have 1280 dimensions. So it's just making the embedding size larger. So each vector
representing one token is essentially larger. So here I have for comparison also a different
architecture Llama two, but even that one is very, very similar to GPT. So here in this case, what
they've done is they swapped layer norm with RMS norm, and they removed dropout. So dropout is not
very popular anymore in large language models. So most architectures don't use it anymore. And
yeah, other than that, they use the rotary embeddings position embeddings. So it's just a
different form of embedding the words, it's just like a cosine sine kind of wave form to rotate
embeddings to create some notion of position. But again, this would be a great topic for a different
video, maybe hopefully in the future. Another detail is they swap the activation functions. So
instead of Kalu, they use Silo or Silo. So they're just honestly, I would say minor implementation
details, but fundamentally, they use the same architecture really. So suppose we are interested
now in working with this hundred 24 million model here is just some, you know, hyper parameter
configuration to get this architecture I'm showing you here. So we don't need to really go over
those, but N layers is the number of times the transformer blocks get repeated. I could also have
called that N transformer blocks, maybe the number of heads here, embedding dimensions. So here, this
would be corresponding to these, right. And the context length is how many tokens you can provide
as input. So new LMS, they support up to 4000, 8000, sometimes even more tokens, but it
makes it also more memory intensive. So 1024 is actually quite a good number for experimentation.
And the vocabulary size, how many unique words are in the vocabulary. And this corresponds in our case
to the BPE tokenizer, which we implemented in the not implemented, but loaded in the previous
notebook. So when we loaded that somewhere here, we, yeah, we use the BPE tokenizer, which can
represent 50,257 words or tokens. Yeah, we disable dropout. It's not really needed. So honestly, it
just makes the architecture more complicated, but we can also enable it. So it doesn't really matter.
And QKV bias, it's implementation detail I did here because maybe I shouldn't discuss it. It's too
much detail here, but the masked multi-head attention layer uses linear layers. And it's usually
common to have a bias unit for the linear layers, but modern architectures don't use that anymore.
So in modern architectures, the linear layer is essentially just a simple matrix
multiplication, especially when it comes to the QKV matrices in an architecture. So it's basically
instead of applying this fine transformation, we have a linear transformation, a linear matrix
multiplication. However, the original researchers who implemented GPT, so the original GPT model,
they did use a bias unit for the QKV matrices, which is a bit weird, but it's maybe just what they
did. But then if we want to load these weights later, we have to match that. So in this case, I
have a toggle. So I can, you know, I can add these so we can later, oops, we can later load the
pre-trained weights. Now, this is just a big picture overview, of course. But there's one more
thing I wanted to talk about. And that is how the input output looks like. So if we have the input
text here, it gets tokenized, as we've talked about in the previous notebook. And then it goes
through the embedding layers, we have the transformer blocks and so forth of layer norm, and
then an output layer. And the output actually, unless we do some post processing, the output of
this output layer, because it's just like a matrix multiplication, a linear layer, how it looks like
is we get a big tensor here. So we have four words, one, two, three, four, four tokens in this
case. So we have four rows, one, two, three, four. But each of the columns here, so we have actually
five 50,000 250, sorry, 50,257 columns. And the columns here, they correspond to the vocabulary.
So it's a bit abstract here, I couldn't, of course, show all the 50,000 dimensions. But we are
looking here for the highest value. So if the highest value in this whole thing, in the whole
row is the first value here, then this would be corresponding to token ID zero, the second position
would correspond to token ID one. So if I go back a bit, previous notebook, we had the vocabulary at
some point here. So first token ID would correspond to the first entry, the second token ID to the
second entry and so forth. And in the same way, each column corresponds to the token ID. So the
first token ID, second, and then the last token ID in the 50,257 dimensional. Yeah, vocabulary. So
this is really how you would implement the LLM. And yeah, I'm not showing you the implementation
details, because this would be a 10 hour lecture. But you know, I have them here in the
supplementary file. And if you want to, it's also described in my book and in the GitHub repository
corresponding to my book. So yeah, if you want to find more information, I have more notes there. So
here we are more focused on the big picture. So let's actually create some simple data set. So I
have just initialized the GPT model. And here I'm getting my BPE tokenizer that we talked about in
the previous notebook. And I have some two text inputs. Every effort moves you and every day holds
a and I want my LLM to complete these texts, essentially. So I'm creating a mini batch. So I'm
not using the data a lot from the previous section, just to keep it simple. I have a very simple
input. So the first training example are these four tokens and the second training example of those
four tokens. So this corresponds to text one. And this corresponds to text two here. Yeah, and let's
put this into the LLM and see what the results are. So you can see the output shape is now two times
four times 50,257. So this is the shape and this is the corresponding tensor. So where or what do
these numbers mean? So we have two input examples, right? So we have one, two, and this is why we have
this two here. And then each input example has four tokens. So we have 1234. That's why we have the
four tokens here. But each of these tokens is now represented by 50,257 dimensional vector. So here,
that's why this number comes from. So if I take one of those, so if I say take the first training
example, and then take the first token, this should give me a 50,257 dimensional vector. So this would
be the embedded token. So 50,257 dimensions, this would be the vector corresponding to the first
token, in this case, this one. And it's not necessarily just this one, because inside a GPT model,
there's this multi multi head mass detention mechanism, which also, which implements sorry, I
almost tipped my glass here, which implements like a concept that combines information from all the
tokens. But roughly, you can think of it as the token corresponding to the first first one here.
Okay, so how does it now result in the next word that we want to predict? Because now we have
essentially as the output for tokens. So for each training examples, we have four tokens that are
50,257 dimensional, which is like, well, where does this large number come from? And why does it help
in generating the next word? Because like I told you before, elements are all about generating the
next next word. So how do we get from this multi dimensional concept to just the token, the text
token? So how do we get from this to this? And yeah, how it works is a bit complicated. But I think if
we go through it step by step, it should hopefully be a bit demystified. So again, taking it from the
left hand side slowly, in the last notebook, when we had some input text, "hello, I am a"
this is my input text, what we did is we tokenized it. So this is now token IDs. And then this goes
into the model. And then we get these four rows with 50,257 dimensions each. So this is what we
just had above. Now, we are only interested in the next word, we are not really interested in all
the four output tokens. Because like we talked about before, if I go back a bit, one second,
here, so what I showed you before is when we train or create an LM, it predicts the tokens
shifted by one, if blue, this is my input, the targets are shifted by one, right? So in this case,
the only if I have this input, the only new token will be the next one. Yeah, the sorry, the last
one, because these the heart of they're already contained in the input here, the heart of so we
are interested in the output, and then only in the last token of the output. So this means we are
only interested in the last row. In this case, if I have four rows, corresponding to my four
tokens, I'm only interested in my last row here, which corresponds to the new token. Now I mentioned
each row will be 50,257 dimensional. And these are the so called logits. These are just
unnormalized scores. Typically, we can it's not necessary for generation. But during training, we
normalize them to obtain probabilities. And these sum up to one. And what I do, then with these
probabilities is I look for the largest probability in this probability tensor. So again, I go from
token IDs, to token embeddings. And then based on the output for the token embeddings, the last
token, I look for the largest value. In this case, it's this value here. And this value
corresponds to position 257. I dotted out a few because otherwise it would be too long.
And so what I'm doing here is I'm looking for the largest value in the last token. And then I get a
token ID. And then I can use my tokenizer decode to decode this token ID back into a word or token
string. So in this case, hello, I am I am is my input. And then I get this a, which is the next
token. And I add this back to my input. And then I do another round where now the model gets
the original tokens plus a new token. And then again, it generates the next one, and so forth.
So this is how we get the M to generate always the next word. This is how we get
this text essentially that we start with this one, the blue one, we generate this a, and this a gets
added as input again. And then the next word is model. And we add this model here back
here, take this whole thing as input, generate the next one and so forth until we have the full text.
So it's really just generating one word at a time that we keep appending back as the input is
sometimes also called as teacher forcing, but I don't like this term. So it's basically just
adding the token back as the input. And here's the simple function without belts and whistles
to implement this concept. So we iterate over the number of tokens we want to generate. So let's
call this max new tokens. And then we get the indices. So here I am truncating them a bit,
because like I mentioned, LLMs can only support up to a certain context size, 1024,
in case I have more text than my LLM supports, I would truncate this. But this is actually for
our simple case, not necessary because we have a very small context. Okay. So what I do then is
I create these logits. The logits are these values here and just called logits. And I get
the last value here. The minus one is the last position. So the columns are the 50,000 dimensions
and here the dimensions, the rows are one, two, three, four. I'm getting the last one minus one
and index in a numpy and PyTorch is the last one. I apply my softmax function, which gives me these
probabilities here. And then I look for the largest probability. Specifically, I look for the
position where the largest probability is. So in this case this position 257. And this
will become then my new generated token ID. And then yeah, I concatenate the original,
originally here, the indices with this next token, essentially. And yeah, and this is essentially how
we generate one word or one token at a time. So here's the whole concept visualized again.
We have some input, generate the next token, append it back, generate the next token, append it back,
generate the next token and append it back. And yeah, this is how it works, how an LLM generates
one token at a time. And so for the exercise, I have not shown you how to use this function.
It shouldn't be too complicated. I hope I have some instructions. I would say maybe pause the video
and try it yourself. See if you can use the previous function that I showed you to generate
some text. So maybe pause the video here and I will then continue.
So yeah, for me, it's been a time sometimes since I made this notebook, but let's see if I can
do this off the top of my head. So the question is essentially how we use this
function that we implemented. So let's do some text, some example text,
and then we first encode it. So we get the token IDs. So we have the encoded text,
let's call it like this. And then we have the tokenizer and code text
should work. So we have three tokens in this case. And I mentioned here, so we need first
to apply the torch tensor to convert this into a tensor. Can do it right here.
So this is now a torch tensor. One thing is our network expects a batch size. So the way we coded
it is it wants a batch size. We can see that here that, where was it? Yeah, we have two batches. So
we have to add this batch dimension and pie torch. One way to do it is using the unsqueeze. Oops.
Yes, sorry. Oh, we use the unsqueeze, which adds a new dimension at the zero position. So
let's see how I can show it to you. So if I have
just a one dimensional tensors with three elements, I can actually also use
I think. And so if one dimension, I can then do encoded text and then do unsqueeze
and first dimension. So this should be now adding this new dimension. So now I have a two dimensional
tensors like this. And yeah, we have to maybe sign it to a variable. Let's call this batch input.
And then we can use our text generation function. So let's use that. Just copying it here.
So we can
just call it model. The indices are the batch inputs. Let's say we want to generate 10 new tokens
and context size or model has context size of 1024. Let's see what happens. Ah, not defined. Okay.
Let's try this again. Badge input is not defined. Did I not?
Execute this. Okay. Integer object is not subscriptable. Where did I make the mistake here?
Oh, I see. I have the end them here. So it should not have happened. So let's just print it out to
make sure it looks okay. The three tokens were the batch dimension. So this should work now.
Yep. So I have my generated output. Now this doesn't really tell me anything
because this is very abstract. So let's convert this back into token IDs. So we would use tokenizer
decode and then give it our token IDs. I think this will probably, this will
give you an arrow because I think what we need is we need to unsqueeze. So it's a bit tedious,
but we have to, sorry, we have to squeeze it now.
So this would be removing the batch dimension and we can actually also turn this into a list.
Not like this. I think maybe like this. No. Oh, item is a scalar. Thank you. I think this should
work. It's just like a tensor. Let's try it out. Let's do. Yep. So we have basically now the text
generated here and you can see this doesn't make any sense. So we can recognize, okay, these are
the first three tokens we gave us input. It makes sense, right? Some sample text, but the rest is
really gibberish. And this is because we have not pre-trained our model. So in the next notebook,
we will pre-train it, but this is why things don't make sense yet. It's normal, but now we have a way
yet to generate text. Let's clean this up a bit. So that's maybe
do it like this. Um, let's move this maybe here. So we have it all in one cell. Okay.
Okay. And if we want to decode this, we add this. So this would be, this would be the
maybe here. So we have it all in one cell. Okay. And if we want to decode this, we add
this. So this would be basically how we use the LM to generate new text. So let's try this again.
Um, it's just generate five, maybe not quite something is. Oh yeah.
Yeah. And so in the next notebook, we will actually train this network and then it will
learn how to generate actually more comprehensible text. But in this notebook, basically we went over
the whole idea of how we hold architecture looks like, like the overall concept and how it's used
to generate one word at a time. I hope it was informative. I know I skipped over a lot of
architectural details due to time reasons, because I think this was another half hour segment. So I
didn't want to make this like a 20 hour course, but I hope, I hope this was useful. So next let's go
to the pre-training. Yeah. So now let's go from the architecture coding to the actual pre-training.
So notebook four, uh, pre-training and items. Again, this is a very abbreviated one, but I hope
it will teach you the basic fundamentals that go into the pre-training in case here, a very small
GPT two model. So for that to make it a bit faster, I will actually use a GPU.
Of course, everything also runs on a CPU. It will just be taking longer. So I recommend
you're using a GPU for this particular notebook. So you should be, it takes a few seconds to request
it, but then, uh, we don't have to, there we go. We don't have to reinstall anything. It should all
be still there and all, all our data should be still there. So it's just loading this.
And in particular, we will be talking about the pre-training and the training loop here.
And this will be using the architecture we implemented in the previous section. The only
modification I made is I made the context length a bit smaller. Originally it was some
thousand 24, but I thought, yeah this would take a bit longer. Actually let's,
let's why not do it? Let's just do it. Okay. Um, but yeah, if you're running on a CPU,
maybe use 256. Um, yeah. So something we already covered, we are initializing, initializing the
model like we've done before. And here's just a brief recap of what we have seen before.
So we, uh, had some text, we tokenized the text and got the tokens, put that into the GPT model.
And then it outputted this gigantic tensor. What we did then is be extracted the last value.
So the last row here and converted these then into the token IDs. So that's what we get here.
So this is for the whole text generated. And then we use the tokenizer to convert the token IDs back
into text, which gives us the actual text here. So this is what we have done before. And now we
are actually training the network because we've seen before, uh, it was not really giving us,
um, anything useful. What it was, it was just gibberish. And yeah, for that, we will be using
also to convenience functions, uh, text to token IDs and token IDs to text so that we don't have
to retype this every time. So these are two convenience functions that we can then plug
into our generate function that we used and implemented in the previous notebook.
So, so far, it's only just adding convenience functions. Let me actually execute this.
So this is essentially the solution that we implemented previously. There's nothing new
here except that we made this a little bit easier here or more convenient for reuse.
And you can still see it generates gibberish after the input. So we have to now train the
model to kind of improve it. So for that, we will be using the same data set that we used in the
first notebook, The Verdict is a short story. So let's just prepare it again here and read it in.
So it's again, the exactly same stuff we have seen in notebook two here. So nothing new. That's why
I'm going through it so fast. And the data loader, what it does is the data loader, um,
prepares the data set so that we have batches for training. So if we have this whole input text,
we would then tokenize this input text and then use the first chunk here as our
batch input. And then the second chunk is the second one and so forth. So this is how we would
prepare our batches. And of course, I'm only showing you that for a very small size, length
six, in our case, we would make the length a bit longer. We can use up to thousand 24, which is our
context size. So maybe going up one more time. So before we set the context here, and we can use
that same number for our data loader so that we can process more tokens at a time. Scroll down
again. Sorry, lots of scrolling here. So we can actually, when we implement the data loader here,
we can set the supported context size or length here as the max length, which will determine
the length of these text chunks. So one other thing I should mention is we also divide the
data set into a training data set and the validation data set. So here in this case,
we don't have a test data set, but we can also use a test data set, but to keep things simple,
it's on a training and validation set. And we can actually use a new data set as test set,
but we will be revisiting the model evaluation later in more detail in this fine tuning notebook
section. So I have multiple notebooks. I think two or three of them are on model evaluation. So we
will be revisiting this later. Okay, so let's now load the data set, reusing things we covered
already. So I don't have to go into too much detail here, but just yet to visualize
how the batches look like. So we have a batch size of two, so that two inputs in each batch
and the size, the text chunk size is thousand 24. And the same is true for the validation set. So
this is, oh, actually, the problem is with 1024 is that the data set is too small. And so
because we only have so few tokens, if we use two batches, we use all the batches up for the
training set, and we don't have validation tokens. And this, now I remember, this is why I said it to
256 here, but I can also actually do this. I could do this also in the data loader.
Let's go here. I could overwrite it here, just here, 256, up to you, really.
Up to you, really. And the stride should be similar.
Okay. Yeah, that looks better. So we can see we have 123456789 batches in the training set, set,
and one batch for validation. It's a very, very small data set, right? So in reality, we would
train the LLM on trillions of tokens, but yeah, this would take quite a long time. So we are only
using this relatively small short story, which should train in a few seconds on a GPU, because
I don't want to bore you here too much by waiting for the training to finish. So you have to count
the number of tokens. We have 4,000 training tokens, 4,600 and 512 validation tokens. So in
total we have 5,120 tokens. And before training, it's always a good idea also to calculate the
initial loss. So I'm not going to go over the calculation for the loss, but it's essentially a
concept. The higher the loss, the worse we want to minimize the loss essentially. So here I have a
convenience function, calculate loss loader, which will calculate the loss based on the whole
training set or the whole validation set. So here we have an initial loss of 10.9, which is really
bad actually. So we want this loss to go towards zero when we are training the model. So the model
training is very similar to how we train deep neural networks in general. So we would iterate
over the training epochs and then we would iterate for each epoch over the batches in that epoch.
We would reset the gradients from the previous batch iteration, calculate the loss,
do back propagation to calculate the loss gradients, and then we use the loss gradients to
update the model weights. And this is essentially number six. That's the step where we update the
weights. And that is how essentially the model learns. And the model will learn to minimize the
loss based on these loss gradients. Essentially it's the negative gradients. So I'm just saying
gradients for simplicity, because that's what people use, but we take a step into the opposite
direction of the gradients to minimize that loss. Otherwise we would be maximizing it.
And then you are usually, it's a good idea to print out the intermediate values. So we can see
if our model makes progress during training, because if it doesn't, then it's also always a
good idea to maybe stop the training and change some hyper parameters and see if we can fix that.
And then at the end, I also find it useful to print out some generated text so that based on
the generated text, we can see how well the model performs. So my training function looks like as
follows. Basically what I've shown you in the picture is encoded here. So we have a function
that accepts the model, the training order, validation order, and so forth. And yeah,
here I'm iterating over the epochs. For each epoch, I put the model into training mode.
And then I iterate over the training order here. So here I calculate the loss batch. So basically
the loss for a single batch in the training set. Then I calculate the gradients, the loss gradients,
update the model weights. And also for visualization purposes, I'm counting the
number of tokens I've already seen. And this is really here just for tracking. So here I'm just
collecting the data so that we can actually plot the training and validation losses after
it has finished. And then also after each, after each epoch, I'm printing out some sample text
that the model generates so we can see visually if the model makes progress or not. So let's
actually try this out. So here I'm setting my random seats. It should be reproducible.
I have my model and I'm putting the model onto device. So device can be a CPU or GPU. If I go
up here again, I defined this. I think I skipped over it before. And so if you are running this on
a GPU here on your own computer, this will, if it's an Nvidia compatible GPU, this will automatically
run the code on the GPU and otherwise the CPU. So you don't have to do anything here. It will
automatically take care of this. So it puts the model on the target device, either CPU or GPU.
And we initialize also an optimizer. So in this case, we use Adam W, which is Adam with
weight decay, which helps a bit with overfitting. It's not a bad idea. Um, because especially
because we have such a small data set also in reality, usually I could have maybe used a bigger
data set, but in reality, usually we only train LLMs on for one epoch. So only one
iteration over the data set, but here, because it's such a small data set, I use 10 epochs to
show some progress basically. But if you have a larger data set, so remember the exercise from
notebook two, if your data set is larger, you probably can reduce them of epochs here.
Yeah. Okay. So let's actually run this and see what the results are.
So by the way, there are a few more settings here. There is the evil frequency. That's basically how
often the loss is calculated for the validation set. And, uh, yeah. So it's essentially,
we look this up again, evil eater. Um, Oh, sorry. This is actually in the function. I was hiding
from you. This is essentially for let me see evil eater. Let's see. This is for the
evaluate model function, which I have not shown you. I've hidden away some of the functions
because I don't want to make this video too long, but there is,
there is this evil eater, which means that it is only using five iterations from the training
lot for the loss calculation for evaluation. Cause if you have a large data set and you calculate
the loss on the whole training set, all the batches, this can be a very, very expensive
computation. So here we are just approximating the training loss by only iterating over it as
a fixed number of times. And in this case, this fixed number of times is by default.
Five, if you paid attention, our validation set only has one entry. So in this case, our validation
set losses calculated by only one validation batch. Okay. So here we can now see what happens
during training. We can see that the training loss goes down, which is nice. So it goes down
from nine to one. Um, the validation loss also goes down. It starts at 10 and it goes to six,
but then it really stops improving. And that it's really because yeah, because the model is
overfitting. It's a very small data set. You can see training us as much lower than the validation
loss. It's because we really, we train for 10 epochs. If we would train for fewer epochs,
we would see less overfitting. But what we can see is that the model learns how to generate
coherent text. So in the beginning, we have some really nonsensical text that's generated here.
And then once we go further, we can see that the LLM becomes more coherent. So we can see, um,
at the end, it is actually quite coherent text. Actually, let's just search for this in the data
set here. Now we can't find this one, but it's almost the same. You can see, yes, quite insensible
to the irony, uh, here. Oops. It's quite insensible to the fact. So it is kind of like memorizing to
some extent. It's not too bad, but in practice also, there are more sophisticated generate
functions. I'm not covering it here in this workshop, but in my book, for
example, I talk also about different methods for preventing this memorization during generation.
So in practice, even if you have something like that in practice, it's not too bad because you
would use something like top case sampling, for example, or a temperature scaling. Um, yeah. So
this was, was the model training. It looks quite okay. Let's just save the model so we can, uh,
instruction fine tune it later. And let's also in addition, visualize the losses. So I just showed
you showed you before, like looking at the text and here I'm looking at the losses.
It's quite interesting. Um, I have maybe changed something in the notebook because I haven't
seen this peak before when I ran the notebook. So some of the things I've done while I was
explaining must have affected this. So there is some peak here now, but you can still see, um,
after this peak, the loss decreases. And we can also see the validation was, yeah, it goes
up quite a lot. And then it converges back down. It's quite interesting to see that I, I must have
changed something somewhere. Um, yeah. And so this would be the model training. So what we have
accomplished so far is that the model can generate text and I'm here. So just a small exercise, um,
try to use the text, generate simple function we used before to just, just generate some text that
is not from the book. So yeah, maybe pause the video and implement this exercise one. And then
I will show you the solution. Okay. So how I would approach this is I would just cause I'm lazy.
I did already a lot of coding in my day to day. I will just copy and paste this.
And would just insert it here and hope that it works.
So just making sure I'm not reloading the model. I don't need this. Um, so let's,
let's just reuse this context here and see if our trained model is now better than before.
Oops. All tensors must be on the same device. Oh, that is actually an interesting one.
So what we have to make sure is that the input, uh, tensors are on the same device as the model.
So what we forgot here is we have to do a two device here too.
Okay. So yeah, it is generating more coherent text. Let's try something else.
So it is kind of working. It's not perfect, but it is, uh, generating some somewhat coherent text.
Um, so the next section, we will actually use pre-trained weights.
I will show you how to load pre-trained weights, and then this will improve because yeah,
you have to keep in mind our model has only learned from this one short story, which is,
uh, in, in fact, really short. Um, yeah. So maybe as a second exercise,
try to load this model now in a new session, because this is also,
I think relevant because here we are training a model and we want to reuse that later.
How do we actually do that? So maybe pause that video and create a new notebook and see if you
can lot this model. So again, how I would do this, I would make a new file. Let's call this, um,
exercise to a Python notebook.
Where is it? And then let me just try the naive thing. So I would say, uh,
where did I save my model? I saved it as model PTH. So I can do, um,
port torch, torch load, and then I can try to load this file. I can actually
copy the path.
So this would be loading my weights.
And we have to also define the model. So what we have to do is we have to lot the model.
So what I need is essentially this part.
And for this part, I need the model itself. Where did I import it? So
instead of scrolling, I could also look in this file.
GPT model, I think. Great. Yep. GPT model. So
`from supplementary import GPTModel`. And then let me copy...Let me copy this configuration.
Okay. And then this should be fine. I have my weights loaded here. I have the model loaded here.
Oops. Device is not defined. You can just say device, uh, could I, in this case,
printing the architecture, which is nice, but we don't want to bloat this notebook.
So I have my model now, actually a good sanity check. So let's say I want to load
the model.
Nice, but we don't want to bloat this notebook. So I have my model now, actually a good sanity
check would be to copy the text. Where is it to copy this section here
and see if it can generate coherent texts. Oops. All tensors are the same device. I think that's
the same problem we had before to Cuda. So right now we are only using the randomly
initialized model. So this is not generating anything useful yet. So what we have to do now
is we have to take these weights. Um, I think it's model from state dict. I think this would
give us the, I think it should be like this one load state dict. And then we will give it the
weight. I think this should work. All keys match. That looks good. And let's try it again now.
Yes. So this is now using our pre-trained model essentially. Okay. So we completed exercise.
Two and optionally exercise three would be training your training, the LM on your favorite
texts. And this would then conclude the pre-training section. Next, I will actually show you how we can
load weights that are better than the weights we loaded here so that the LM can actually generate
something that is more, even more comprehensible. So now we have a model that can generate some text,
but it's not great. And that is because we are only trained it on a very small data set for like
a minute or so. And so the next notebook, we are going to load the pre-trained weights from open
AI. So here in this notebook, we are loading them of how open AI originally trained the GPT two
model. And yeah, back then they spent months and months on training this model today with modern
hardware. You can maybe train it in a week or so, but yeah, this is a much more capable model
because it has been trained on, I think it was like about 500 billion tokens. And yeah, in this
notebook, we are going to lot the weights from that training run, the original one into the
architecture we just coded. And yeah, for that, we need to use TensorFlow. And that's because back
then, yeah, open AI use TensorFlow and the code will be still PyTorch. It's just required here
for loading the weights from the original files that are provided by open AI. So I'm imparting
here this download and load GPT two model. And this is a function I implemented and tucked away
a bit because it's not super interesting. It's essentially just downloading the relative, sorry,
the relevant files from the open AI websites, this open AI public prop core, so-and-so website.
And this contains a bunch of files for each model that we will use to load the model. Yeah.
And so essentially, it's just loading the parameters and the settings. So yeah, so this
is essentially, I would say not super interesting to go also actually amusing this one settings and
premises. So it's just loading those. And if you are running this in the Studio, it will actually
be quite fast. So this will be only taking a few seconds because I already downloaded these files
for you. If you're running this on a laptop, it might take a few minutes, but shouldn't be too bad
because it's a relatively small model. Um, yeah. So using this function, uh, we implement or
we download this settings and params that are prepared with the function implemented there.
And just to show you briefly what those variables are. So settings are containing information
about the architecture. So this is similar to what we had. If I go back, maybe to let's go to
notebook four it's similar to this structure here. The naming conventions are slightly different.
So I call it context length instead of what is it? And CTX thought it's just a bit more
readable, but otherwise number of heads and number of layers. It's basically the same
convention that we used here. Okay. Um, so this is where these names come from.
So it's just like the general settings, uh, the params here, they do contain the
contents of the weights, the tensors. So this is a dictionary that contains the
transformer blocks. And this, I think is a bias unit for the output embeddings. Oh, sorry.
These are, I think the variables for the layer norm, the final layer norm. This is the position
embedding layer and the word, uh, word embedding layer. So the first token embedding
layer TE for token embedding and PE for positional embedding. So they would correspond to if I
go to the architecture here let's see, they would correspond to this, uh, for WTE would
correspond to this, this one and WP would correspond to this layer. And then the G and B, I think they
correspond to this final layer. No, it's been a while since I wrote this code, but yeah, the,
the way you can tell if you do the snapping correctly is if you lot the weights and you make
a mistake, the model will not be able to generate anything useful. So a good sanity check is really
just, yeah, loading the weights, seeing if the model generates coherent text. And if it does,
it's usually meaning that you did this mapping correctly, because yeah, the model is very,
very sensitive to the correct numbers there. And we can actually take a look at some of these,
um, contents. So let's maybe dive into the blocks. So the transformer blocks here,
that should be a list. Let's see. Oh, sorry. I wanted to say length params. So there's a length.
Oh, it's five or so five content. Sorry. I wanted to take a look at the blocks actually.
Yeah. Speaking and typing is for me somehow challenging. So there are 12 elements because
we have 12 transformer blocks. So if we take a look at the first transformer block here,
index zero, let's see how that looks like. It's actually a dictionary, I think. So let's do keys.
So this contains the attention weights. Uh, there are two layer norms and this MLP,
which stands for feed forward. Like it's a multi-layer perceptron feed forward type. So
the first layer norm, the second layer norm, and then this MLP is this feed forward part,
which itself consists of two fully connected layers. So, uh, I think I have here a better
figure. So you have one linear layer and another linear layer and an activation function in between,
but activation functions don't have any parameters. So we only have basic parameters of the linear
layers here. Um, so let's take a look maybe at one of those. So I do MLP here and then maybe
keys again. So right now I'm basically looking at the two linear layers in the first transformer
block. So linear one and linear two, they have a bit of a weird naming convention, but yeah,
that's basically how they named them back then. And let's just maybe look at this one.
Oops. And I think this is also a dictionary. So let's see.
So in this has both the bias and the weight matrix. So these are the weights and this is
the bias vector. So we can actually take a look at the weights. So these are the weights, um,
and they are in shape or dimension 768 times 3072. So the number comes from this embedding here,
the embedding size, and then it's projected four times larger. Um, it's maybe hard to see here
because we haven't coded the whole LLM because I was trying to avoid this because it would be
otherwise too long. But I think I should have it here somewhere. Transformer block
feed forward. Yeah. So you can see the embedding size 768 is projected up by four. So if I have
four times 768, I should get this 3000. What was it? 72 here. So that's where these numbers come
from. So now my challenge is basically on my task or my problem is how do I get these weights into
my model? So how do I really get those into my architecture that we coded? So yeah, I actually
wrote a function for that too. So let's first lot the model again, like we've done previously.
So this is the model we coded and I have different conflicts here. So this would be the one on 24
million model that we just loaded. So if we take this one, so the mapping here, if we take this one,
we initialize the GPT model right here with, with a 124 million size. So the way why it looks so
complicated is yeah, it allows you basically to swap the model out. You can use, for example,
the larger model here, if you want to. Okay. Um, we also have to enable. So this was the config
we used previously. Let's say we use the smaller 256 context length as we did for the
small data set. We would have to increase this because the original model was trained with that
context size. And this is to make the positional embeddings to match. And I think I mentioned
this before, but originally the researchers also used bias vectors for the QKV matrices.
It's really not necessary and not recommended, but they did it back then. And if we want this
model to work well, we have to exactly match what they've done. So if we want to lot the weights
correctly, so that's why I'm also setting these here. And yeah, then I'm initializing this model
and have a small utility function. So this function is really just making sure the shape
of the left tensor is the same as the right. And so if I give it to tensors and then it will convert
the tensor into a torch perimeter, so call touch tensor and then touch parameter to convert this
basically. And then it's really this is like a tedious part I've already done, but then it's
really like a brute force finding out what does, uh, the name they provide, like C projection,
what does it correspond to? Is this the first or the second linear layer? It's a bit tricky,
but actually you can do it by trial and error because you know what the dimensions are.
So, and you will also see if you do a mistake here, the model won't produce anything useful,
but yeah, I've already done all the hard work here, so don't worry about it.
But yeah, so this is essentially a utility function that lots, the tensor flow weights into
pi torch tensors, which then are used by our model. So I'm, I have a, this utility function
here that I'm calling that really uses this mapping to Lord everything into our own model.
So it's a brute force thing where we have... So here I'm iterating over
the transformer blocks. And if you take a look, let's not look at the attention because we haven't
covered this really, but let's look at the fully the fully connected layers, the linear layers.
So here I'm in transformer block B and, uh, I'm assigning here in this attention, uh, part
the left one, sorry, to the right one. So basically I'm taking the open eye weight
and overriding it with our own weight, basically. Also, sorry, the other way around,
I'm taking my own weight and I overwrite it with the open eye weight. And I do this with every
single weight here. So I'm for each single weight, I'm overwriting
my randomly initialized parameters with the open AI one. It looks very tedious,
yeah, but if you do this for all the weights then the model should be initialized with
the open AI pre-trained weights. It took me a couple of hours at least to figure out the
right mapping. It's not a fun exercise, but you know, once you have done it once, you never have
to do it again for this model at least. And now we will be ready to use the model. So now we have
the pre-trained model and I'm using the same function we used before this generate text simple,
giving it now the model with a lot of weights and I'm giving it the same input again. And
let's see what it produces. So, yeah, so it produces more coherent text or not coherent
necessarily, but you have more texts that matches what we've provided here.
If I maybe modify this a bit moves you forward. Oh, it's kind of like the same.
Okay. Every effort moves you forward. Then you move forward. The first step is we can actually
may extend this a bit. Okay. It's very repetitive and this has also something to do with the fact
that this is still a very small, uh, model. Okay. It's kind of repetitive. It's kind of repetitive.
So as an exercise for you, I encourage you to try a larger model and see if this can actually
improve the quality. So maybe pause this video at this point and see if you can modify the section
above here and use a larger model and see what you get. Okay. So let's maybe use the
one next larger model. Let's use this one.
So I should also make sure actually, I don't know the larger model here.
It shouldn't be too long, but yeah, it's 1.4, two gigabytes.
Maybe should have saved them here for you. So you don't have to do this, but yeah, it's all good. I
think. Yeah. It's sometimes tricky to plan a very long, you know, coding session. So I think when
I'm finished with this, it's probably going to be three or four hours. And, you know, ideally in an
ideal world, I would probably go back and polish it up a bit and then redo it. But you know, uh,
there's only a day only has so many hours. Okay. So it's downloaded now
and let's go here to this part. Sorry. Um, that was a, uh, lost all of you, but so here I have the
355 that I'm loading now. So this will be the randomly initialized model. We already initialized
these parts. We don't have to do anything here. So let's go ahead and do this. So let's do this.
And here though, uh, yeah, we need this basically. So we will need to execute this,
which will be loading the pre-trained weights similar to before into our model.
So it was pretty fast actually. And now let's see if this will look any better.
Well, it's somewhat better. Every effort moves you forward, but you must be careful. You must
not let your guard down. You must not let your guard down. It's a bit repetitive and, um,
that's like, okay, that's sorry about our every effort. So it is a bit it's not great. It's
a bit repetitive because we are still working with a smaller model. If you should use this one or
it should happen to use this one, you will see it will be much better results. But yeah, we don't,
I would say have that much time here to download the weights. So I don't want to bore you. I can
leave it as an exercise. So yeah, I personally like doing from scratch stuff a little bit.
Like doing from scratch stuff a lot because yeah, it's fun for me, but it takes a long time. So for
this workshop, for the remainder, I'm actually going to use a library called lit GPT so that we
can make some progress here. Um, so lit GPT is kind of based on the same concepts that I've shown
you before. Um, it's library helped developing it's more sophisticated though. It's, um,
yeah, it's implementing some more optimized, optimized, optimized code and also supports a
lot of other LLMs besides on GPT, but I can maybe briefly show you how it looks like.
So here in lit GPT, basically there is this model here, model pie file. And for this one,
you can see it's also a GPT model. So all the other models like Llama, phi, Gemma,
they are derived from that. So here, this is implementing the base model. But then when you
look at the config, that's where you would basically set the different settings. For example,
see stable LM, uh, you would then set the different embedding sizes, number of heads.
Some other LLMs have different multi-layer perceptron parts. Um, let's see if we can go
to Phi-3 recent one. So this has also some other modifications. Um, for example,
you have the number of layers and different things that you have to tweak, but fundamentally,
it's not that different from what you would see when you implement you know, like
GPT type models. It's essentially all based on the same architecture.
For example, here, mixed role is a mixture of experts. It's slightly different,
but still you have the concept of, uh, block sizes, number of layers, and so forth. There's
something called inquiry groups, which is multi query attention. It's essentially
just a small modification where you, instead of having one value key query connection,
you have for each query, you share the key and values basically. So it's essentially just
like little tweaks, but nothing fundamentally different. So here in this notebook,
I wanted to just briefly show you how you can use the GPT to use more sophisticated
LMS other than GPT two. So there are multiple commands. There's a command line interface,
`litgpt download | chat | evaluate | finetune | pre-train | serve`. And for here,
for this notebook here, we will be just looking at downloading and using the model. For example,
`litgpt download` and `chat`. Um, yeah, you can install it via PIP install LGBT. If you are
using this, uh, Studio, you probably don't have to, because I already did it for you. But if you're
running it on your own computer, you just do PIP install LGBT and it should be all ready to go.
And yeah, so as I mentioned, there are a couple of LMS implemented, so you can actually get a
list by a LGBT download list. Gives you a list of all the LMS implemented in LGBT. So it's a very
long list. Let's say we are interested in finetuning. I'm actually not running this command
because I already downloaded it for you. So it should be here in the checkpoints folder
and the Microsoft. So you don't have to download this model if you're running the Studio. But if
you're running it at home, yeah, execute this terminal command. Uh, there's also a Python API.
So if you want to use the GPT and Python for generating text can also do that. So here I'm
importing the LLM class from LGBT, and then I'm loading this model that I just downloaded here.
So let's do that. So it's loaded now. And now what we can do is we can do LLM dot generate.
Let's say asking a question here and see what it responds.
Yep. So that's like a response to what LLM eats. Um, we can also stream the response, which means
basically instead of generating all this text all at once, it will do it one text or token at
a time. Um, yeah. And then just for, you know, for fun, small exercise, you can try to download
another LLM, for example, you know, Pythia, Llama, Phi-3, maybe Phi-3 might
be a good one because it's a quite new and good model. So how you would do that is
let me just use the terminal. It's a bit easier than doing these things in a notebook.
Let's say `grep Phi`.
Yeah.
Oh, I forgot. Should type list here. Yeah. It's just something I recently added. Um,
I don't know two days ago, so I kind of forgot. Okay. So we can then maybe also
download to this model. GPD, download
Phi-3 spelling is a bit different. It's the way Microsoft uploaded these models. It's
with a capital letter here. It's with a smaller case letter. It's kind of a bit inconsistent,
but it's what it is. So yeah, thanks a bit, but shouldn't take too long.
So this is basically downloading the weights and the config files.
Okay. And then it's converting the weights into a little GPD compatible format.
So first it's uh, converting the safe tensors to bin files, which is a bit easier to parse.
So, because some have say tens of files and some have been found and then now it's loading the
weights. And yeah, I'm very proud of this, uh, progress bar that I just added the other day.
So it's showing you the progress, how long it takes to convert the weights and then they are
converted. And yeah, this should be then saved as one file. Um, so it's, uh, saved in this folder
as lit. I think it's lit model dot PTH or something like that. Let me double check. I always
forget the name. Not that it matters, but yeah, just showing you.
So you can now find this model here. And then this would be the LGBT compatible weight file.
And then I can load this. Um, okay. I forgot the name. Let's just put it here.
I'm out of memory because I still have the old Phi model in memory,
but you could also do what I could have done instead of restarting the notebook,
you could have just deleted LLM and then loading it. Cause you know, when you have this object here
and you call load in Python, it will load it and then assign it. So you had for example,
and you call load in Python, it will load it and then assign it. So you had for some
amount of time to LLMs in, in memory. Okay. So let's try this model.
Yep. It's also a relatively reasonable response. Yeah. And this is essentially how
LGBT works. And in the next notebook, we will be fine tuning it.
Okay. Let's now move on to part six instruction fine tuning. So there are multiple ways we can
fine tune a large language model. One is for example, a classification fine tuning.
And another one would be instruction fine tuning where we provide a, or we create a data set with
instructions. And then the large language model learns to answer questions or, you know,
follow instructions, for example, convert the sentence from active to passive voice or passive
to active voice, or fix the grammar in the sentence and so forth. For this one, we are not going to
do it from scratch because this would take a very long time. But if you're interested,
I have a notebook here with detailed notes. So this would be implementing the instruction fine
tuning process from scratch. You can see it's a lot of code, which might be a little bit more
complex. You can see it's a lot of code, which might take four to five hours to walk through
slowly. So in this case, we are going to use a lit GPT in the next two notebooks. But I wanted to
at least give you the introduction to instruction fine tuning, how the data set looks like,
because I think this really helps understanding what's going on when we talk about instruction
fine tuning. So yeah, just to give you a few more examples of instructions. So here on the
left hand side, I have three examples, convert 54 45 kilometers to meters. And then the desired
response that we want the LLM to generate would be in this case, 45 kilometers is 44 45,000 meters,
or provide a synonym for bright. In this case, a synonym for bright would be radiant. And here
another one added the following sentence to remove all passive voice. And then we give it the sentence.
And then here we have the sentence converted to active voice. So on the left hand side are examples
of instructions that we would feed to the LLM. And then on the right hand side, these are the
desired responses. So the LLM should respond in this way, or in a similar way, it doesn't have to
be exactly that way. But it should be, of course, answering or fulfilling the task here. So for that,
I have prepared a data set. So I created it myself. It's Yeah, I just called it instruction data.
So let's take a look. So this is basically a JSON file here. So yeah, here I have a bunch of
instruction entries. So here, each entry consists of an instruction key, an input, and an output. So
the input is the instruction. And then I have, for example, evaluate the following phrase by
transforming it into a spelling into the spelling given on it's kind of like a weird one, though.
Okay, let's let's take maybe this one. It's easier to talk about, edit the following sentence for
grammar. And then we give it the sentence as input. And then we hope the LLM will generate something
like this, where it corrects the grammar. So here it says he go to the park every day. And one correct
way would be he goes to the park every day. So it's correcting this spelling here or grammar.
So some of these examples don't have this input though. So you can see here, I have an instruction
that says convert 45 kilometers to meters, but there's no input field. So in this case, the input
is kind of like part of the instruction. So that these two forms of instructions, and the reason why
it's formatted like that is I took the alpaca data set as an example, which is, I would say one of the
early really popular instruction data sets. And I just followed the same style, just for historic
reasons. And in that case, some of them had inputs and some didn't. So in practice, you can actually
also get rid of the input field and always, always include this as part of the instruction,
you could do something like this, for example, and then just get rid of this. But yeah, I included it
for historic reasons here, because that's like the original way of doing it.
Yeah, we have, we can count this, we have about 1100 instructions here. And this is like, I would
say, a relatively small data set. Originally, alpaca was about 52,000. And later papers like Lima,
I think it stands for less is more, showed that you can also get really, really good results with
only 1000 examples. So there, they focused more on high quality instruction inputs and longer
inputs, and found that with 1000 instructions that are high quality, you can actually beat a
model trained on 52,000 in alpaca. But then also, you can always you can also think about it, okay,
quality is key, but you can also think about then, okay, why don't I make 50,000 high quality
instructions, right? So there are several data sets available on the internet, I think that maybe
hundreds or 1000s of these data sets, some even have 500,000 or so instruction inputs here.
So to make the training relatively fast for this workshop, I have a very small data set only
consisting of 1100, and relatively short instructions just to accelerate the training a bit.
So let's load this data set. So we have 1100 instructions, as I mentioned, and yeah, each
example, each training example is like a Python dictionary. And you can see, there's an instruction
field, an input field, and then an output field. And like I mentioned before, some have a blank
input field. Now, this is how a data set entry looks like. But this is not how we would typically
feed it to the LLM. Because yeah, if you used ChatGPT before, you know that you're
just providing the LLM with natural language, you're not using any, you know, like programming,
formatting characters or something like that. So in that sense, what we do first is we convert
this instruction into like a human written text or something that looks more natural.
So in this case, I'm showing an example using the alpaca prompt style template. So what it is
doing is it's converting this input or the whole entry into a human like, you know, text. So here,
what it is doing is prepending something like a boilerplate, something like below is an
instruction that describes a task, write a response that appropriately completes the request. So it's
giving the LLM more context of what we wanted to do. And then we format the instruction here.
So we have like a header, like these three pound signs, and then instruction, three pound
sides input, and then the response. So this would be a formatted training example. And here, on the
left hand side, I'm using the alpaca prompt style, which was, I would say, one of the first popular
prompt styles that were used. I'm using that for historic reasons, but you don't really need all
of that. So you can make it actually also simpler. For example, in Phi-3, they have something
that's more like this, where you have a user and assistant tag, instead of using instruction,
they use user, and instead of response, they use assistant, and they don't have any boilerplate.
So I also tried this out with the same LLM when I instruction fine tuned it, and you get approximately
the same performance out of the LLM. If you use this style, and what's nice about it is it uses
less resources, because here you can see this is much more text. So the LLM needs a larger text
input, which requires then of course, more memory. So in this case, this is more even more memory
efficient. But I'm using alpaca style here, because that's the original, that's, I would say the most
popular one. So here's some code that formats an input in this alpaca style. And you can see on
how I deal with the input. So I say, provide the input if there is an input field, otherwise,
leave it blank. So maybe it's easier to just show it to you. See.
So here is how the model input would look like that's without the response. This is what the
model that they will see when we wanted to generate stuff, and then also adding the response here.
So the complete formatted example would like us for it would look like as follows where we have
here basically what I've shown you above here. So that's just the formatted prompt some code for
that. And if we don't have an input field, then it then it will skip it. So you can see, there's
only an instruction, and there is no input because in that case, if the input is empty, it will skip
it. Okay, so we now saw how we can take this entry and format it into an instruction style.
And then the next step would be tokenizing that. So this is going back to the very first notebook
we talked about, about tokenization. So a long time ago, but we talked about converting things
into token IDs, we use the same concept here. So we convert these instructions to token IDs.
And then, yeah, so, so first, we converted into token IDs. But then, we usually want to create
training batches. And this is similar to what we have done before during pre training. So let me
see if I can spontaneously find the right section here. So here, we, when we go back, we created
these batches where each has the same length. And here, it was easy in pre training, because
we could just chop it up like that. So where we could define us a certain length, and then make
equal length chunks and put them into mini batches or batches. So here, it was relatively easy in
pre training to prepare the data set like that. But yeah, during instruction fine tuning, each
instruction input would have a different length. So how do we actually deal with that? So one way
to deal with that would be to add so called on padding tokens, or padding tokens, and padding
tokens here are, if you remember, it's a long time ago, but we had this on end of text token. So we
had this end of text token here. And yeah, here's where we are reusing this end of text token, which
corresponds to token ID 50,256. So, so in the left hand side we have three instructions
formatted. And here we have the token IDs. Of course, they are very short, because I wanted
to fit it onto one image, but you know, they would be very long in reality. But if we assume
these are my three different instruction inputs, you can see that instruction input one has five
tokens, the second one, two tokens, and the third one, three tokens. So in order to make them all
equal length, what we do is we are padding them. So this means we are making them all the same
length here. And then if we have a different batch, we do the same thing here. But note that we don't
have to have all the batches the same size. So the first batch can be longer than the second batch.
So in the sense, we are just making sure that all examples in a single batch have the same length.
So you can see, in this case, the longest example is five. So everything is padded to five tokens.
And the second batch here, the longest example is four. So we are padding everything to four,
in this case, only the first example. So we're just making sure everything is the same length.
And then when we create the training, sorry, the targets for training, what we do is also,
um, we create these tokens shifted by one. And again, this is a very similar to what we did with
by one. And again, this is a very similar to what we've done in pre-training. So in pre-training,
I think I should have a figure here somewhere. Maybe it was in the previous notebook.
Thought I had a figure on this. Let me see. Maybe it was here.
Yeah, I think this is it. So if you look at this in pre-training, what we've done is we have
everything shifted by one position. So we have the blue box, which is the input, and then the targets
shifted by one position. And we do the same thing now for instruction fine tuning. So here we have
the input instruction and then the targets are shifted by one position. So you can see that
everything is shifted to the right plus one would be the target. And then the target is the target.
And then if we do that though, the targets will be shorter than the inputs. So we add also a
padding token here. And what's nice about it is this padding token is this end of text token.
So the LLM will then also learn, okay, this is the end of the text. Now the end of my response
and we can use this token to also, yeah, when we create the instructions to
stop generating the response, when we encountered this padding token.
Um, one more thing I wanted to explain is, so this is how the, the data looks like on the left
hand side, right? The formatted response. And we have then optionally these padding tokens, but,
um, also, uh, in, in practice, what can happen or what is common sometimes is so I should
actually say we have an end of text token that we add. It's quite common, but then also what I should
say is we typically mask out also the instructions when calculating the loss.
I would say it's more like an optional step, but I did experiments and there was actually also
a paper showing that for shorter data sets, you may not need to do that. And it's actually
better not to do it, but it's relatively common to mask out the instructions. So what that means is
essentially that when we are calculating the loss for the LLM, we are only calculating the loss over
the response. Otherwise, uh, we do the same loss calculation that we do during pre-training where
we are calculating the loss over all the inputs, essentially. So if I go back, uh, where
basically we have the input here and then the targets and the targets are just shifted by one.
And when we calculate the loss, we calculate it for every token position. And with instruction
fine tuning, it's often common to remove the inputs from the loss calculation and how it can
be achieved is by masking these by minus 100, but that's maybe too much detail because I'm
not showing you the loss calculation. If you're interested though I have a walkthrough here,
um, how it's done, but it's, yeah, it's a bit more code. So let's, let's maybe in this particular
case, not worry about these minus 100s, but yeah, like if you're wondering if we calculate the loss
over the inputs, no, you know that it is a research problem that some people do it and some people
don't. Okay. So this is in a nutshell, how a dataset for instruction fine tuning works.
And so next we will go over instruction fine tuning and the GPT part two would be the
instruction fine tuning with LGBT. Um, but before we go to the instruction fine tuning itself,
just a very brief note about a technique we are going to use to save some compute
resources to make it a bit faster and memory efficient. So there's a technique called LoRA,
which stands for low rank adaptation. And so how it works is essentially we are approximating the
weight updates. So if you think about any deep new network, it doesn't have to be large language
models. So usually have some pre-trained weights or just the weights in the model.
And then at each yeah, training loop, what you're doing is you are computing the weight update,
how you are going to change the weights in that model. So here, this is the Delta W that's how
the weights would change in each training pass. And if W is a 10 by 10 matrix, then this
would be 100 values, 100 weight weight values. And the weight update would be also 100 values here.
So we have 10 times 10. Now in LoRA, we are replacing this weight update matrix by two smaller
matrices that are approximating this. So for instance, assume if this is 10 by 10, then we
would have, for example, something like 10 by two and two times 10 and two times 10 is 20 plus 20,
we have 40. So we are kind of saving weights by using these small matrices compared to the
original one. And if you think about a thousand times thousand, that's 1 million,
right? Um, and we have two times thousand time plus two times thousand. That's 4,000, right?
So in this sense, uh, we can save a lot of weights by using smaller matrices in the
inner dimension here are that's the rank we, I mean, this is a hyper parameter. We usually
use something like eight or 16, but it's just like an example. And if this is like too complicated,
don't worry about it. It's just a way of saving some memory by approximating something.
Um, and yeah, the LoRA layers, they're usually applied to the linear layers the weight of
matrixes, the matrix layers that are linear layers. So, and in a neural network or in LLM,
specifically, we would encounter them in the output layer in this feed forward module, the multi-layer
perceptron module, which has two linear layers, and then the matrix multiplications, the QKV
matrices in the masked multi-head attention modules. And we have that over a number of blocks.
So that's actually a big improvement in terms of memory. If we apply this to all the blocks in the
model. So here in this section, we are now loading the data set from the previous notebook,
our 1,100 instructions. And before we start instruction fine tuning, of course, like in every
deep learning project, we should divide the data into training and test data. We also have a
validation set later that is created by, by the GPT, but here at least we are dividing it into
training and testing data. So we will have in this case, 935 test, sorry, train samples
and 165 test samples. And we are also saving them as Jason files here.
Okay. So now we have this test and train Jason here. Now we are going to do the instruction fine
tuning. And instead of using regular instruction fine tuning, we will use the LoRA instruction
fine tuning, but you can also remove that. And yeah, just try the regular one, depending on
your hardware though, this is more expensive. And this might be, I would say for this workshop to
save some memory for smaller hardware, if you are executing this on a, on your own computer,
I would recommend this one. And yeah, so here are a few settings. We define the Jason data set
format that we are going to use. We use 10% of the data for validation and we provide the path
to the training Jason file that we created. And we train for three epochs and block the results
every 100 epochs. So let's see, that might take a while because yeah, we are still, I mean,
it's relatively efficient, but we are still training over three epochs. So by default,
you will see all the hyper parameter settings. So yeah, edit this. So for record keeping,
so you can always see what's happening under the hood. Um, we have only 2.6 million trainable
parameters and the Phi model has 2.7 or 2.8 billion parameters.
And so you can see with LoRA, instead of training 2.8 billion parameters,
we are only training 2.6 million, which is like it's 1000, uh, less parameters,
1000 times more savings in terms of memory. I'm not memory. I mean,
savings will be not that big in memory because the matrix multiplications usually, uh, itself
take more memory than the weights, but we will save still a lot of memory and we will save
especially storage because we only have to now store 2.6 million and stuff, 2.8 billion
parameters. Um, you can see the, the validation loss is NA here. And that is because the
validation loss is only calculated on every so many steps. So actually you can look this up here,
you know, so every 100 steps is because otherwise it would be too expensive if at every
step we would calculate the validation loss. So this will be first available after step 100,
but we can already see that the validation loss goes down, which is great. So it goes from 2.2
to 0.5, which is actually great. Maybe we don't need to train even three epochs. Um,
it's actually already quite, quite good here, but we will see, we can see it's still going down.
We are in the second epoch now. So again, I used a very small data set so that this goes very fast.
If you train, let's say on the original Phi data set, sorry, on the original data set with 50,000
entries, it might take, I don't know, three hours or something like that. So in this case, um,
yeah, to make it faster, I use my small data set here with very short entries. You can also see the
maximum length of the training data is 101 tokens where the model supports up to 2048.
So in this case, you could have much, much, much larger inputs, but again, to make it more efficient.
Um, yeah, I used a very small data set here so that it will complete in a few minutes. So yeah,
100 steps have elapsed. So we should next time it prints the line, we should see the validation
performance. Yep. We can see 0.557, which is actually quite good. We had four, nine, six,
five, five, seven, but you can see there's a jump here. Oh, it's going down again. There was a
slight jump in the training, Chris, uh, training loss. Um, I don't know exactly why this can
sometimes happen if it's a specifically challenging example. Um, yeah. And so in this case we can see
validation losses 0.557 note that this looks identical because it's only updated every
hundred steps. Like I mentioned for efficiency, where for the forward pass, we have to compute
the loss or the predictions anyway. And then in the backward pass, we compute the loss for the
updates. So in this case, this is of course, for every iteration, where this is only for every
100 for just efficiency reasons. Yeah. We can see it's still improving at least based on the
loss here on the training set loss validation. We don't know yet. So it could be overfitting,
but it looks actually quite close and that looks quite good. Actually
not much overfitting at least.
So about 213 seconds elapsed, which is three and a half minutes. Right. Um, and we can see
a validation of this 0.51 and the training loss is 0.9. So in this case, it's actually not even
overfitting. So it's about equal and note that this is also an approximation, right? So this
is only approximated on the current batch and not the whole training set, but we can see
approximately that the model trained quite well here. Oh yeah. I already see this as the end of
the notebook. So the next thing is actually an exercise for you. So we will be evaluating the
model based on how good the responses are in the next notebooks. So here we are only looking at
the loss, but we will also compute a score. And for that, we will save the test set responses
because yeah, like, you know, from other deep learning projects, we should take a look at the
test set, which has not been used for training. If we want to get an unbiased estimate of the
performance. So here this function, what it is doing is formatting the input for the model.
And this is for the test set. And so the task would be, I can actually delete this
because this is something you shouldn't see. Um, the task is essentially to generate the responses
using the model for all the test data points. So here, so we can iterate over the test data set
for E in range test data. I should say length.
And then for each of these tests that entries I recommend computing,
calculating the response by the model, the model response, and then adding it back to this, uh,
test set test data dictionary. So for that, you have to use the format input, right? Because
otherwise, if you only use this, it will give you this. Oh, it doesn't. Yeah, of course it will give
you this format. And we need actually for the model input, we need these two formatted in,
in this fashion, right? Because that's also what the model has seen during training.
So you have to apply this format
input function. Oh, what happened here? Oh, format input.
Here we go. So this would be the model input and yeah, generate this for each test sample and
then add this to the test data set, the model response basically. So the model, so maybe pause
the video. I'm talking too much. Maybe, maybe just pause the video and try to think about how
to do that. Because yeah, for that, we will be using the LLM lot method in LGBT that we used
previously. And then you can use LLM dot generate to generate the response for this one here. So
maybe I can just show it to you, but if we have the LLM lot, it, you could be doing LLM generate
like this to generate the response for the first test set sample. And the task for
you is to apply this to all test set samples. Okay. Maybe pause the video and then give it a try.
Okay. So let me show you how I would do it. I would probably use, um,
a progress bar for `import tqdm`. I think it's from, I always make this mistake
`from tqdm import tqdm`. And then `for i in tqdm` and then
oh, what do I want to arange? Right. And then test data. I think this should work.
Just thinking about it. I think this should be fine. And then
it's actually need to lot the LLM. Let me do that from, uh, let tqdm part.
And we are going to use first the base model, by the way. And then in the next exercise,
we do the same thing for the fine tune model. So let's do LLM,
um, and I'm not, oh, sorry. I'm not load and then Microsoft
fight too. I like the fight to model because it's relatively small, but capable.
Okay. So let's load this one. Um, yeah. And then here
we should replace it with an eye, of course. And this looks good. So we have test data.
And then how do we call it? Maybe base model and then assign the response. So I think this
should be correct. We'll see. And so right now I'm iterating over all the test data points,
format the input, give it to the LLM here, generate the response and assign the response
to the space model thing. So yeah, this might take a while. So in the meantime, I could actually
already just delete this already have a solution here. Um, so let me now do this also for the next
part. So LLM load. And for that one, we want the fine tune model, right? So I go up here
and look what the file path is. So here it says where it's saving it. And so we need
an LGBT. We need the folder similar to how we use the folder here. So we need the folder,
copy this one. We can also specify a different folder. That's just the default folder. There's
actually a setting for that. If you scroll up output deer that you can set you can just,
yeah, you would set it like this in my directory or something like that.
But yeah, for this example, I didn't specify it. So it's going to be this directory here.
And should probably delete the old LLM, just to free up some memory.
And then I can actually copy. Oh, that's already finished. Let's take a look actually test
data. Let's just take a look at the first one. Oh yeah. So we have the input, the output, and then
the baseball response. The car is as fast as a cheetah. Okay. It's actually a bit long. So it,
um, create some other stuff here. Let's see if it's, I hear it looks better. So yeah. Um,
the name of, so we ask it, the author name of the book, pride and prejudice. Um, the correct
answer is Jane Austin. And here it's a bit more verbose. It says the author of pride and
prejudice is Jane Austin, but I would count this as a correct answer. So this looks good
now. Um, but this is the base model. So actually we don't expect it to be that good.
And the reason is, I think, or many people think, uh, Microsoft has actually fine-tuned the base
model on instruction data. So, which is why it's relatively good, but it's not perfect. You can see
this is, this is good, but then it has some other stuff, but it's actually a quite good base model.
I'm surprised. Okay. But let's, let's take a look at the fine tune model.
So let's do this. I actually don't need this part.
Okay.
And then in the next notebook, we will be evaluating the models with your benchmarks,
common benchmark data sets, and then also, uh, another scoring function.
So here we are just, you know, uh, eyeballing it. We are just looking at it and that looks good.
That doesn't look so good, but it's not very quantitative, right? We are just, you know,
looking at some outputs and eyeball it. I think people, I don't like the term,
but some people call it vibes. So it's like, you know, perceiving how good the model performs.
Yeah, there's a lot of, if you haven't noticed,
there's a lot of jargon in the large language model field.
Okay. It's actually quite, I mean, it might, uh, you know, you might think it's taking a long time,
but it's actually quite fast. I'm actually quite impressed how fast it goes.
Okay. Let's take a look at some fine tune response data. Let's take a look at the first
example again. Okay. So let's take a look at the first example. So let's take a look at the first
fine tune response data. Let's take a look at the first example again.
Yeah. See, this is actually already improved. So you can see the input is the car is very fast.
The output is the desired output would be the car is as fast as a, as lightning, but this is only,
you know, one possible example. And the base model generated, the car is as fast as a cheetah
and then has some other, you know, stuff here where the fine tune model is actually more concise.
It says the car is like a bullet, which is actually quite nice. It's like a very nice
and concise one. And you can see it hasn't memorized anything. Um, I mean, this is a test
data, so it hasn't seen the test data, but it's also using a different response, but I would also
count this as a correct response. So the next notebook, let's just take a look at some common
benchmarks and then we will develop a scoring way of doing this more quantitatively instead of
just eyeballing it. Yeah. So in part three, we are going to use, or going to take a look at some
benchmarks, some ways we can calculate the performance of LLMs based on popular benchmarks.
One such benchmark is MMLU, which stands for measuring massive multitask language understanding.
And every time there's a new GPT model or what is the other one? Anthropic Claude model or
Gemini model. There is usually a technical report with an MMLU score. And this measures
essentially the knowledge of the LLM based on multiple choice questions. I would say multiple
choice question answering is not the best way to evaluate LLMs because it's yet testing the
knowledge, but it doesn't really test how well it generates text. But in any case, so how it works
is essentially there is an input, for example, which character is known for saying to be or not
to be. That is the question. And so for potential answers are Macbeth, Othello, Hamlet,
and King Lear. And then, you know, the model gets this input and has to respond with a correct
answer. In this case the correct answer would be C Hamlet. And then, yeah, we will check if the
answer is correct. Um, and if yes, we compute this as a score, and then we divide the total
number of scores by the number of examples, multiply it by 100% to get accuracy. So what
it means is essentially a 90% accuracy means it has 90% has answered 90% of the questions correctly,
for example. So this would be one way of evaluating LLMs. And there's a tool called the Lutha AI LM
evaluation harness, which essentially does the same thing, but also for different tasks. So it's
actually a really nice tool which integrates multiple, multiple methods. Um, so here I'm just
showing you an example in LGBT, how we use the Lutha LM evaluation harness to compute Hella
Swag, Truthful QA, and MLU scores. Um, this would be one way of getting performance estimates for an
LLM. Another one is Alpaca EVO. So Alpaca EVO is a leaderboard where the developers of that leaderboard
compare models to GPT four preview. So you, if you have a model and you generate a response,
they use a GPT four based judge or auto annotator. And they ask that GPT four model,
how does this model response compare to GPT four preview? And then it gives you a win rate. And
this means basically GPT four omni omni omni wins 57% of the time compared to GPT four preview.
And then something like the original GPT four model, it only wins 38% of the time compared to
the GPT four preview model. So it's essentially like a relative benchmark compared to how a model
compares to GPT four preview in terms of its response quality. Another popular benchmark,
I think it's maybe even the most popular today is the elements is ChatBot Arena. So how this
ChatBot Arena works is it's essentially crowdsourcing the evaluation. So I can actually
maybe show this a bit bigger. So um, here, what you do is essentially you have two models, let's
say Gemini and Phi-3, and then you are comparing or so you're giving it the same answer,
or sorry, the same response, and then you're comparing the answers. So there's model a Gemini,
model B, Phi, and both get the same instruction. But both, of course, generate different answers.
And then as a user, you can say, a is better, B is better. It's a tie or both are bad. And based on
this ranking, yeah, the people at LMS ChatBot Arena, calculate a leaderboard, and then you can see
how the model compares to other models. And I think this is actually a really nice benchmark
because it, you know, it asks people actually, how useful do they find them? How good are the
responses? Of course, you know, it's not perfect, because you have a knowledge base questions,
you still need to know the correct answer to give a correct rating here. So for example,
I don't know if you ask it, who was the first president of the US and it gives you a wrong
response, you have to know that this is a wrong response to give it a bad rating, right. So in
the sense, it requires humans to also know the correct response. But I think it's still
quite a nice way of evaluating LMS. So in this notebook, I will go over how we do the
MMU evaluation. And then in the next notebook, I will show you an automated way that is more
similar to this alpaca evil. Okay, so actually, I may have accidentally deleted a few cells,
so let me just do this off the top of my head. So in the LGBT, how we would
get the scores, I would just do the GPT evaluate list. And then, so this would be listing me or
listing all the tasks that exist in the evaluation harness, the Luther AI evaluation harness.
Yeah, it's a bit ugly, because we installed TensorFlow at some point. So this is a very
long list of all the tasks supported in LGBT. If you want to be a bit more specific, you can do
also on say, and then it should only list the MLU related tasks.
So
still a lot of tasks. Let's see. Let's just use one of them. Which one should we use?
Let's just do this one. Okay, so now we can, I can actually we can use so it's a bit crowded
there. LGBT. Evaluate the model, right? Microsoft to the base model first. And tasks, let's just use
this one. And we can also define a batch size. So it goes a bit faster and see how that performs.
And then I can do the same thing for the fine tune model.
This is actually the exercise. So I will leave this as an exercise for you
to do the evaluation of the fine tune model. But let's first see what we get here.
Oh, actually, it's a really bad score. Yeah, it didn't get anything correct. Let's try another one.
Let's try this one.
Okay.
I could also just use one of the ones I tried earlier that I have here. Well, this is actually
the whole MOU humanities, other social sciences stem.
Yeah, this looks a bit better. So we get 28% accuracy on this task. Now as your task,
try to do the same thing on the fine tune LLM. So maybe pause the video and see if you can evaluate
the fine tune LLM. So how I would do it is I would just copy this
and then change it with our fine tune one, which is
this out fine tune LoRA, I will just copy this path.
29. So this is actually a slight improvement. So our fine tune LLM is a bit better than the baseline
and even though we only had a very, very, very small data set and only trained it for like three
minutes. So that's actually quite nice. Okay. So this is then how we do benchmark evaluation.
Of course, you can also use other tasks. You can, like I showed you before, use multiple like that,
but you know, that would take a bit too much time. So let's jump into the final notebook and see how
we can use another method that also evaluates the conversational performance of an LLM.
30. Okay. So now onto the fourth and last notebook. So here we're going to use an automated way of
evaluating an LLM using another LLM. So for this notebook, we assume we have a data set in the
following form. So where we have an instruction, uh, optionally the input, the correct response.
So this is essentially what we had originally in the alpaca data set. And then we added the response
of the base model and the response of the fine tune model. So I saved it here as this file.
So this was something you, uh, as an exercise, hopefully generated in part two. And yeah,
so this is essentially, uh, containing the before and after before means before fine tuning after
means after fine tuning. I mean, what names you choose doesn't really matter. You can also call
this base model and a fine tune model, but like that we have all these entries here.
Um, let me go back to this one. So this is how the data set would look like.
And yeah, let's first lot this data set. It has 165 entries. It's only the test set, right? So we
only have 165 entries can take a look at one of the entries. Like I said before, there's the, um,
um, uh, output that we consider as correct output. And then the output by the base model and the
output of the fine tune model. So now here's just like a utility function that we used before
to format the model input. So this is just formatting the model input. Um, yeah. Then
the output would be like this, the one that is provided in the test set and the
the generated model response is this one here. And essentially what we are going to do is we
are going to ask a Llama three model to consider this input and then given the correct output,
assign a score to this response. So basically I'm saying giving the input
and the correct output score, this model response on a scale from 100, zero to 100,
where 100 is the best score and then respond with the integer number only.
So let's do this. See, I messed around with the notebook a bit, so I should first load this,
of course, and let's give it the, it's just Jason data
and the Jason key would be the Jason key here is just what we call the response. In this case,
let's use response before
and this would generate these model scores.
Okay.
Yeah, it's relatively fast. I would say
yeah, this is also where I use small data sets here because we don't want to wait an hour for
50,000 responses and something like that. Okay. It's finished. So let's take a look at the scores.
So now we have these scores from a, on a scale from zero to 100.
We can actually, let's compute the accuracy.
Oh yeah. What did I do here? Oh yeah.
Oops. I made a mistake here.
Wait, where am I wrong here? Oh, I see they are already on a scale from zero, one to 100. So yeah.
So this should be the accuracy, right? So on an accuracy, but a score. So we have a score now of
82 for this base model for the response before now for the exercise, or maybe do the same thing
for the fine tune model, the response after that you saved as part of the you know,
part of the exercise here in, in section two. So basically how we would do this is the same way
after, and then we can pin it like this.
Okay. So in this case actually made the model slightly worse can happen. So it was probably
because of the LoRA fine tuning. Oh, maybe this method is also not perfect. You can try a larger
model, but yeah. So we, we see that, uh, we got some scores that we can compare and yeah,
sometimes, uh, fine tuning doesn't necessarily make the model better.
Yeah. So in this workshop, we covered six topics the introduction to LLMs,
understanding how the input data is tokenized. We coded I would say a fraction of the
architecture just to get a feeling of what a LM looks like, how, how it's structured.
We briefly pre-trained the LLM lauded pre-trained weights. And then lastly,
we find you the LM. Um, I have no idea actually how long it took. I just feel like I have been
recording this video for like maybe three to four hours. I definitely need a break now. Uh, but I,
yeah, I hope it was useful and it gave you some ideas yeah, of how LLMs work and how they
are trained. So in specifically, we covered these topics, but only in brief, each topic was maybe
only 10% of what I covered in my book. So if you are interested in more information,
um, I have a very extensive book on all of that, where, yeah, what I just covered was like maybe
10%, 20% of that. Um, other than that also, yeah, let GPT is a really useful tool in practice. If
you want to fine tune LLMs for real world tasks, because everything in the book is, I would say
more for educational purposes. It's, yeah, of course, developing a LLM that works and it can
be used in practice. Um, but here you have basically more optimized LLMs that are, you know,
larger and so forth. Um, so yeah, if you're interested in lit GPT, here's a link to the
GitHub repository. And we also at lightning, a developer platform that I used also here for
teaching this, uh, video workshop. So, uh, in that sense, you can use multiple GPUs for training. And
yeah, what's nice is really, you can switch seamlessly between CPU and GPU. So you don't
have to run the GPU the whole time. You can just switch to a CPU when you are developing code.
And then once you're ready to scale it up or run it, you can then switch to GPUs. And there's also,
I used a visual Studio code, but there's also a Jupiter lab environment.
We also have a lot of examples for fine tuning LLMs. So you can find the Studio examples here,
training models on a trillion tokens and so forth and optimized inference and so forth.
And with that, yeah, I hope this was useful. I know it was a bit messy. It was just, you know,
spontaneous, uh, a recording I did for three to four hours. Now it's not very polished. I know,
but it's hopefully, uh, in some way useful to you and yeah, thanks for listening.